hey guys so this is a how-to video on
how to make the firestarter that I came
up with what you're going to need is
some cotton pads some cotton balls towel
paper towel roll some candles some
matches and some good scissors all right
so what you're going to want to do first
is cut off roughly in inch inch and a
half depending on how that you want to
make it of towel paper towel rolls and
then what you're going to want to do is
tear off rectangular pieces of the
cotton pad and then Karen off so they
look like this so they can fit around
the edges of the paper towel roll and
then what you're going to want to do is
put wax all over them and then have them
stick to the outside and to get wax on
them you can either burn a candle let it
drip onto there and then you can do it
that way or you can melt the wax in a
pan or something I'm out of bag liner
liner for the pan so I'm gonna have to
be dripping candles so it will take a
little bit but i'll show you what it
looks like when it's done alright so
there's that and all I really did was
drip candle wax onto the outside of the
paper towel roll and then I put the
cotton squares on to it and around the
outside and it's stuck to it and dried
so next what you're going to want to do
it's probably the thing that takes the
longest is a drip wax all around the
outside of the cotton now and make it a
nice good layer of candle wax so i'll
show you how that looks like alright so
here it is with the wax coat on the
outside and it took me probably like 20
minutes to burn it all on there and like
i said there's a lot faster if you
melted like in a pan with liner but yeah
and if you wanted to burn longer you can
add another layer but that takes a while
but probably worth it so next what we do
is we get the cotton and we melt a bunch
of wax pretty much on there and stop it
on the inside so I'll show you what that
looks like in a minute alright so this
is what I'm doing and slowly dripping a
bunch of candle wax into cotton that I
stuffed into the toilet paper roll and
you don't want to get a bunch of cotton
in there because we're not quite done
yet we're gonna put an outside layer of
cotton in there too we're just getting
an inside coat of wax right now and so
I'm almost done with one side and then I
gotta move on to the next side and they
don't show you what that looks like when
I'm all done all right so this is what
it looks like just melted the wax on the
cotton on the inside and then what it
looks like so now what I'm going to want
to do is take some more cotton and stuff
it inside stuff as much as you can in
there and then so it makes for easier
lighting and then take some more here
and then what you're going to want to do
is maybe melt a little bit more wax on
there so it stays in just to make a good
way i already put some cotton on me on
this side so this is what it should look
like and then you'll be about done so
i'll show you what it should look like
alright so this is the finished product
and just one little tiny thing left you
want to do and that's a put some cotton
on the top maybe drip a little bit more
wax and make it so it sticks so it would
make really easy lighting maybe connect
a little bit of cotton to both
sides of the ball and then you'll be
done and then I'll show you what it
looks like when it's lit okay so this is
the finished product and when you lied
it you want it to be standing up so the
flame can get in on both sides so I'll
get it lit and show you what it's like a
long minute okay so i just got the
cotton on top lid it's already burning
fairly high and I did that with Flint so
it wasn't very hard so I couldn't have
the video going when I did it but yeah
it should should take off in a minute
so it caught on the other side and yeah
there it's going so all that's going
show you another thing so I was in this
in chemistry class actually if you're in
a really desperate situation you can use
a Cheeto as a firestarter too so you
might need matches for this one but it
will get lit and then it'll go what so
yeah chito burns pretty good too and
then you you can add a few to it and
have a Cheeto fire but yep that's the
spotter starter and it'll probably burn
it for a good 20 minutes in the cheeto
for a couple minutes but definitely
enough to get a fire started so